all right well howdy there internet
people it's bo again
and uh today we have the liberal retinac
uh comedian of sports i guess
somebody that my wife told me you know
she's like hey you need to watch this
guy he's the liberal redneck and i'm
like yeah
i've seen the act before not really that
can start and then
i tune in it's a little bit more than
that there's uh some substance behind
the jokes
and we're here to talk to trey crowder
how are you doing today i'm doing all
right bo
uh thanks for having me uh i i hate to
start on a technical
question but i'm going to i could see
you a minute ago and now i can is that
what was supposed to happen
uh well you shouldn't be able to see me
[Music]
should i should be able to
yeah i can't it you i did
before you as soon as you started
recording your
picture went away and now it's just a
little icon that has your initials on it
says bf i don't see your picture at all
i mean
i can you know i can handle that but
i don't i didn't know if you if it
wouldn't mess anything up for you but
hey
i can't see you uh no i mean we can go
without my picture these
everybody's seeing me all right
okay the audio
is good okay though right yeah
yeah i can hear all right okay so
how did this start i mean did you just
decide that
hey i'm gonna mask uh some political
content and comedy
and uh go from there or where did this
well yeah
well i'm actually like i'm
i i was a comedian before like a
stand-up comedian i'm primarily a
i caught if you ask me if i'm filling
out a form as for you know what your job
what your occupation is i write down
writer comedian
and i always wanted pretty much always
ever since i was a kid wanted to be a
comedian
and as soon as i got old enough to even
start thinking about
what types of comedy i would probably do
all of my favorite comedians when i was
growing
up were the people that were like social
commentators people that talked about
things that were happening in society
like actual issues and stuff
my the my biggest my number one favorite
and guys biggest influence on me
probably was chris rock well like chris
rock dave chappelle george carl and
richard pryor all of those types of
comics were always my favorites
so when i first started doing stand-up
in 2010
i immediately was doing i would
talk about what i considered like you
know real things like i would talk about
racism or homophobia or i'd talk about
the bible or whatever
on stage from the very beginning
and then as far as the videos go i had
this stand-up bit that i did on stage
that was basically what the videos ended
up being it was all about
the premise of it was i hate how every
time you ever see
somebody that looks and sounds like me
on tv
it's always the same [ __ ] it's the same
bible thumping troglodyte you know
with a misspelled sign about how jesus
hates big government or whatever it's
always the same thing so i was like
i need to i'm going to start fighting
fire with fire i'ma start
going in public and being just as loud
and crazy and redneck as they are but
i'm going to say a bunch of
my you know liberal stances to balance
the scales
and then i would just say a bunch of
liberal [ __ ] in a really redneck fashion
and i was doing that on stage
and i talked to people other comedian
friends and stuff at the time
and bounced the idea around of like
making
videos based around that bit or that
character
and everybody i ever talked to was
always like yeah that's a good idea
you should definitely do that but i
still just kept
i kept not doing it because i thought i
need to save up money and buy a fancy
camera i need to learn how to edit and
all this stuff
it seemed like a barrier to entry for
whatever reason and then one day
in april 2016 when north carolina passed
the hb2 law
i saw a video that was going viral on
facebook on the far right
it was like people i went to high school
with were sharing it that's how i saw it
and it was this preacher in north
carolina
who was just standing in the woods for
some reason
uh standing beside his just saying
standing beside his
big dodge ram just holding his phone and
just hollering at it
uh preaching fire and brimstone about
the evils of
you know perverts in the bathrooms with
our little girls and all this stuff and
not like not a dick joke inside wasn't
funny at
all like wasn't even trying to be funny
wasn't even trying to be funny just
straight up
fire and brimstone and it had 15 million
views
and i saw that and i was like it's like
a light bulb went off
i realized like oh man if this
type of thing is what i'm trying to make
fun of or satirize you know
and it is then i don't need any fancy
equipment i don't need it to look fancy
as a matter of fact
that would be a mistake like what i need
to do
is do it exactly the way this guy does
it just go out back and holler at my
phone and that's the style
you know and as soon as i had that
realization i made the first level
redneck video like
two or three days after that and the
first one got like
70 000 views or something and i was over
the moon about it i was like okay
i guess i'm onto something i'll keep
doing it and the second one
that i made was about the hb2 law
and it went like crazy viral ended up
getting like around 30 million views on
facebook or something like that and just
like
took off insanely and uh
my like life and my comedy career and
all that stuff literally changed
overnight
as a result of that i still had a day
job at the time
all that allowed me to quit my day job
and go into comedy full-time
and go on tour and that's what i've been
doing for the past
four years so that's kind of how it got
started and i'd like to think that that
north carolina preacher
someday somehow one way or another if he
knows about me at all or ever sees any
of my stuff i hope he knows that like
this is all his fault
or i guess or i guess it's god's fault i
don't know
you know depending on how he looks at it
but you know mysterious ways right but
yeah it was the uh
direct influence on me but as far as the
content of it
it's just i mean that it all comes from
a very authentic place like i grew up
as lot as long as i've ever had any
political opinions at
all they've always been progressive and
i grew up
poor in a rural poverty stricken part of
tennessee a very
stereotypically redneck area so like
i've just always kind of been that guy
so like really i'm just
writing they say write what you know and
i mean that's pretty much all i've ever
done like it comes to me
i come by it all very honest for sure
like i i didn't really have to
sit and plan or contrive any of that
it just uh it you know it comes from a
very
genuine place for me yeah it comes
through
i can see that the uh and it's funny
because one of the things that i
watched was talking about people hide
their accents when they leave
you know and that's something i did for
a long long time
um and this channel actually you know
didn't see any success until i actually
kind of the same
thing uh started it started as me making
fun of myself
for the fact that i hit it for so long
once people found out about it
and then it yeah it kind of blew up um
but you also bring up a point in one of
them where you're
talking about the percentages you know
because there is that
image anybody that has a beard wears a
ball
cap sounds remotely like we are hard
right
like right ultra conservative bigots
blah blah blah blah
right percentage of boats doesn't really
show that
and you brought that up and it's
something that i think because
i have a lot of uh international viewers
i think it's something that
people should be aware of is that that
image isn't accurate
like not at all right i mean just
liberal southerners tend to be more
quiet
about their beliefs because it isn't the
majority viewpoint
right yeah yeah i uh
you know when all that first happened i
got
so many messages i met so many people in
person
who said verbally to me some version of
like
oh you're you know you're like seeing a
unicorn right
or like oh i didn't know i didn't know
that people like you existed it's
obvious this is all coming from people
like outside the south but like
like no exaggeration people that
literally believed that every single
white southerner you know that at least
was southern enough that had the accent
that you could tell they're from the
south but every
single one of them was like you know a
christian conservative
or whatever and like to me that's so
absurd
that that anyone could could actually
think that but like people
really did and people still do really
think that not not everybody i live in
california now
plenty of people are do not look at it
that way or plenty of people just don't
give a [ __ ] one way or another but it's
but it's very much a real thing and uh
i was aware that for a long time before
i ever even started comedy i knew that
was a thing and it always annoyed me
because again i've
never been i've never fit
that stereotyping that way ever but i've
always
sounded and everything like i would
so it's all it's something that i've
always been like sensitive to
and annoyed by so you know
right set people straight yeah and i
actually think it's a service
um and again yeah i was the same way i
had my accent i was a journalist
i was drinking one night and it came out
and they were like oh my god
crap that's me um but you have to
probably right like oh yeah like because
here's the thing
i never i never did hide or get rid of
my accent
but but i don't at all like blame people
who do or hold it against them because i
understand
the reasons why you would and i know
that like in
a lot of careers or industries or
whatever and i'm assuming journalism is
probably one of them like
you know you almost have to you know and
uh but i just i always had such a chip
on my shoulder about it ever since i was
a kid
because we had a lake in my hometown and
people from the north
had boats on that lake and would come
down there in the summer so it's like a
small little tourist town and all the
tourists
were from up north and like everybody in
my town knew
like the dynamic was you know we were
all the dumb ass
backwards local yokels to them you know
they all look down their noses at us and
stuff like that
and so like i've never not been aware
of that perception but instead of like
trying to
change it it made me you know like the
red the red ass in me
you know like we're just like [ __ ] them
they don't know me you know what i mean
like just because i talk this way don't
mean [ __ ] they can kiss my ass like that
was my attitude about it always like i
gotta
change my accent just for these
[ __ ] like that
and i just that was always my sort of
stance
as it were and you know i'm very glad
that i didn't because i i would be
remiss it would be disingenuous for me
not to acknowledge that
my accent has been a huge part
of all this for me and my whole thing
like without a doubt so
you know ended up working out but i
don't blame anybody that
that goes the other way oh yeah and
that's
i've had the same experience i mean
that's the funny part about it is
it started as a joke but now i basically
do the same thing i did as a journalist
just
in in my shop you know right
it's it's it's unique because people
don't
know that there is a
wide diversity of thought in the south
right
right so tell us about the book don't
you have a book
yeah um so i
two of my best friends that i knew from
doing
stand-up already before all this corey
foster and drew morgan
um whenever we uh we all had the same
manager before the videos went
viral we'd all been doing stuff together
and been good friends for a long time
before the videos went viral and so
after they did
immediately we were like hey let's go on
tour we always want to go on tour and it
seems like an opportunity to
so that that started pretty quickly and
around the same time very very early on
like we got contacted by a literary
agent who was like i think we could sell
a book and then we
did and it all happened very quickly and
this is 2016 and they wanted
the agent and the publisher and
everybody very much wanted this book to
be out
before the election just because it was
like gonna have political themes to it
and so what that meant was we had a time
an insane timeline
unlike unlike it's very unusual for
a book to have it was like six to eight
weeks or something for the bulk of
the draft of it which necessitated
um the three of us sort of co-writing it
together uh in order to meet that so the
three of us
wrote this book it's the liberal redneck
manifesto
colon dragging dixie out of the dark i'm
gonna be honest with you
we did not come up with that title where
i've always had
mixed feelings at best about that title
that was the publisher's call but it
is what it is um but either way what the
book basically is is it's just
um an analysis and a topic by topic
breakdown
of like the stereotypes and perceptions
and
and then on and then on the other hand
the actual realities
of what people think about the south and
what the south is
so in each chapter it it's broken down
by chapter in these chapters of
different topics so there's like a
chapter
on guns on gun culture in the south
there's a chapter on race and race
relations in the south there's
and then there's more light-hearted
light-hearted southern subjects too like
there's one on food
and there's one on music but then you
got you know there's one on religion
uh there's one on um
uh southern women like the whole
southern belle thing what that's really
about there's one on opioids
so it really like runs the gamut but
it's all all the things that we thought
were like the
the sort of cultural touchstones or
however you want to put it
of the south and it was you know on one
hand what do people think
that it's like and that we are like
where this is concerned
versus what is it really like and also
you know what could what could we do
better what needs to change
that kind of thing um but i'm uh we
all three of us are very happy you know
again that was 2016 so i mean it's been
i you know four years ago we wrote that
book and it it's it feels like a
lifetime ago
uh it seems like another person did it
almost but having said that we were
definitely we've always been
proud of how it turned out and feel good
about it and it got
it was very well received you know
people seemed to like it it got good
reviews and all that type of thing so i
mean i feel good
about the book but yeah
it also feels like something from a past
life almost
it feels like it was so long ago i mean
seriously because it was like that's the
most insane period of my life
bar none to date and i can't imagine
that it will ever be topped i can't
imagine there will ever be a more insane
brief window of my life because like the
tour the book everything quit in my day
job go
like it it was and it's all a blur
looking back on it is my point and
part of that blur includes
writing this book but um
but yeah we you know we're proud of it
we feel good about it
so let me ask you this i mean your
intent is comedy
but how does it make you feel to know
that
your work uh like the charlottesville
video
yeah that actually gets used to reach
out to people
right um it does have political
political ramifications i mean people
actually
use that as a tool to reach out to
others i mean
i'm just curious it's weird
honestly i i go back and forth on her
i'm kind of on
of two minds about it because again i
always want to be a comedian
i never wanted to be any kind of like
activist or [ __ ] provocateur or any
kind of [ __ ] like that like i just
wanted to be a comedian
having said that i mean i think
it's cool anytime you can actually like
reach somebody or start a conversation
or whatever
is is great i'm glad i have the ability
to do that because like
again it goes both ways because on the
one hand a lot of comics get frustrated
because they feel like they can't ever
be serious about anything
if you're a professional comedian uh and
that's never been a problem for me
it's totally okay for me to be serious
people aren't put off by that it doesn't
like i can get away with being serious
in a way that a lot of comedians can't
because of my whole thing and that's an
asset and that's great
but the flip side of that is i you know
i'm a comic at heart and everything and
like man
sometimes i just want to you know
just make some dick jokes or talk about
you know my wife or whatever just talk
about silly [ __ ] you know talking about
my
my sons i have two young sons talk about
them and all the fart jokes they make or
whatever like just
you know silly observational daily life
type stuff that doesn't have any
weight to it and isn't supposed to i
you know i definitely feel sometimes
like
not that i can't do that but that that's
not
what anybody wants or expects out of me
like i definitely feel kind of a
i feel like a weird obligation to like
you know talk about things like always
and i don't mind it but sometimes it
would be nice
you know to be able to just do some
silly [ __ ] for a while
but don't get me wrong i'm grateful and
i wouldn't change any of it but it is
kind of a complicated dynamic
you know for me right
um yeah i i can i can see that
i mean i'm my viewers are used to
the whole you know every once in a while
i will just do something very satirical
and you know actually come out as a far
right person
and make an entire video about it and it
confuses newer viewers but eventually
they catch on
um i can definitely
there is a pressure to turn out the kind
of content that
the people who normally support i mean
that makes sense
right and you know for me
looking at your stuff it's
it's one of those things where i
actually couldn't tell
whether or not you set out to be
uh political or you were just funny
uh you know i wasn't really sure what
the
the intent was i mean the end result
is that you have content that can make
people question what they believe
and that's yeah i mean to me yeah well
the thing that i think a lot of people
may not understand is that like
as far as first of all i don't really
consider myself to have a like
mission or anything but like people ask
me a lot about like my videos
changing people's minds about things and
whatnot and
normally like the vast majority of the
time when i get that question
they specifically mean like
stereotypical rednecks in the south
changing their
mind about like progressive issues right
that's what they're asking me
and like yes i know that that had that
has happened i have talked to people and
people have told me like that has
happened at least a couple of times but
it's not like
that that's not that common what is way
way
way more common is
hearing from people from outside the
south and everything
who say that like my videos are
influenced them and change their mind
about like how they
looked at and felt about the south in
general like made them realize that oh
they're not all the same or the south's
not a monolith or whatever i've gotten
that kind of response a shitload and
like that's important to me like because
like i said like growing up
in that tourist town like really it all
kind of comes back to that
for me like that's what's at the core of
all of it really for me
is more so than any one specific
political issue or whatever
it's getting across to people or
illustrate for people
like hey we're not we're not all the
same
you know or like it's you know um the
south isn't a monolith
there is diversity like you said there's
diversity of white
thoughts and opinions too it's not just
between you know black and whites in the
south or whatever there's like
it's way more complicated than you
realize
and um and don't assume things about
people just based on where they're from
you know and all getting all of that
across
is really sort of like the
the foundational thing that i that i
feel like most of my
stuff and most of my work uh comes from
really both like stand-up bits and all
that but also like
i've been trying to get a tv show made
for you know four years now or whatnot
still trying and it's like with that it
probably won't be
hardcore political and like a topical
way
but it will absolutely be based around
trying to show a different side of the
south than you would typically see on a
tv show because everybody know you know
it's usually
some version of the same thing you know
beverly hillbillies blue collar comedy
toured something in that
vein and uh just doing just
simply doing something that is very very
southern
but also not that like
very authentically southern but coming
from a different place that people
haven't seen before like just
that alone is like what
is a huge goal of mine and you know is
very important to me
so really it all kind of comes back to
that
uh for me more so than any one like
progressive talking point or anything
like that although i do believe all
those things
yeah yeah well i mean it seems
yeah i don't think anybody doubts that
it's
that you actually believe that um
i don't think i've ever seen anybody say
oh it's just a bit and that
those really your views um
so and this is kind of unfair i wish i
had warned you about this one because
normally the people who come on are
actors they
are people who set out to do that i
always have one question i ask everybody
okay that is if watch if you could give
the people watching this
one piece of advice as far as how they
can change
their community and better their
community what would it be
um i don't
go into any kind of discourse with
someone who you know is on the other
side of you
automatically assuming from the very
beginning that they are on the extreme
polar opposite end of the spectrum from
where you stand on it
because i think that people do that a
lot in america
and maybe everywhere but like i like
i'll give you a specific example
from talking to my buddies back home i
still go back home
every summer and go out on the lake i
can't this year because the world ended
and all that but
you know as soon as we can go back i
will
and see all my buddies i grew up with
and everything and a lot of them
are like me a lot of them are totally on
the same page as me
politically uh and then you know some of
them are not but we've grown up together
we're really good friends and some of
them are conservatives
one of those trips one of my good
friends comes up to me
and you know we're standing there
drinking beers or whatever he walks up
and he's like
trey i just like my thing is
i just don't understand why er he goes
he's like you know me you've known me
your whole life
you know i work full-time i'm married
i'm a family man i got two little girls
you know he never broke the law yadda
yadda what he's like i just don't
understand why
you think that i shouldn't be able to
own a gun
and i was like i don't think that kobe
like i don't like i don't at all think
that
like even a little bit i'm like you
absolutely should be able to own a gun
and i was like oh
all i think is that there are plenty of
people in this co plenty of people in
this country
who probably shouldn't and we should you
know try to take steps
to keep insane or violent people or
whatever
from being able to have a gun because
there are plenty of people
who shouldn't have one but you're not
one of them and i said that and he was
like
well i mean yeah i agree with you about
that he's like definitely there's
definitely some people that don't you
know shouldn't have a gun or whatever
and so we ended up realizing or finding
out that like
we actually were like this far apart
like barely
if at all like we were pretty much in
agreement about how we felt about guns
but we started it from this position of
like you know he thinks that i want to
take everybody's guns
and i think he wants to give every
eighth grader an assault rifle
you know what i mean and neither and
neither one is true
and i think that i think that people do
that a lot you find out that somebody's
on the other side of an issue from you
and in your mind you automatically put
them
in the extreme when most people are not
extreme in their views
just period and i think that that skews
a lot of uh
the conversations and stuff from the
very beginning they can't even get
started because people start from the
wrong place so i feel like
that's uh some advice i would give
people just try to keep that in mind
you know as you're going about your life
and dealing with people and i think that
it will uh
lead to you know better relationships
and
things actually getting done and all of
that good [ __ ]
i would hope sounds good
uh so what's next what do you what
projects do you have to plug what are
you doing next do you have a tour
well probably not right now no yeah no
stand up is yeah stand-up comedy is
illegal
and uh you know for being honest we're
being honest about it i mean when you
think about it
uh live stand-up comedy requires
a you know large number of people
to be put close together
in a relatively small space
and extend live stand-up comedy let's
just be frank here
really could not be less essential right
so
like i think i think i hope i hope not
i would love for the tour to kick back
up as soon as it's actually safe and all
that
but like i personally think it's going
to be a long time
before we can do live shows again and
that sucks but
you know it's out of our hands nothing i
can do about it so the tour is
suspended indefinitely until you know
until things
hopefully go back to normal so with that
in mind
uh and again like i said i've been
trying to get these tv shows made i've
sold multiple shows and written multiple
scripts that just
didn't reach the finish line didn't get
shot i had a couple
i had some that i was still working on
those are also
now just you know put on pause until
things go back to normal
so we have me and the guys i mentioned
earlier corey drew have our podcast that
we've been doing this whole time the
well-read
that's well red well-read podcast it
comes out every week
we're still doing that via zoom still
you know
making videos and stuff trying to do
some different things now
with the lock down some like zoom
sketches and whatnot and just putting
them out on the social pages and the
only like
real like legitimate thing i have to
plug
is um i have a facebook watch show with
um
with this media company called attention
media and the
the show is called south and off and
it's kind of similar
to the format of the book it's like each
little episode like five minute episodes
and each episode
is about one particular subject and it's
some southern specific you know
topic or phenomenon or perception
or whatever and we did one season last
year
and we just filmed v
on quarantine like i said this little
studio in my
in my house out here in burbank and
filmed it all myself and uh
animating it and graphics and all that
uh but we're putting that out
starting next week uh south and off
season two
and so like this year there's topics
from like
you know the myth of the southern bale
coal country
conservative versus conservation um
diversity southern diversity you
mentioned earlier that's
the subject of one of the uh one of the
episodes
and um southern innovations
contributions that the south has made
to like you know america as a whole so
just
and then and then a few more so those
are some of the subjects that are
covered and
those will come out weekly starting
monday the what is that the 11th
next monday so south and all season two
and then after that man
hell if i know i don't know hopefully
something will come up
just trying to keep busy but mostly i'm
just sitting around and trying to
keep my wife and i from losing our minds
with these uh
children who can't go to school you know
anymore trying to homeschool them and
just maintain our sanity basically
right yeah i definitely
definitely can't relate you know we had
the same thing we had some plan this
summer
to go on tour and we the whole thing
just kind of fell apart and i'm like
well now i don't know what i'm going to
do
which is nice on on one level you know
because i'm still out of the tree i
don't have to go anywhere
yeah i don't mind i honestly don't mind
being at home you know i love my family
i love being at home
with them um but yeah the uncertainty of
it all and not knowing
you know what is gonna happen but hell
everybody is in that position right now
right nobody knows what's gonna happen
so
you know i'll be all right
all right so you got any final thoughts
you want to get
out there um
i don't know just uh i guess everybody
just try to
you know keep your heads down and sold
your own
like i'm weird people might not
pick up on this or might expect
otherwise but i actually am like
ultimately
an optimist about things and i always
have been and i think part of that is
because like
i grew up in the rural south like look
the rural south has still got a lot of
work left to do and a lot of progress
left to be made but i don't care what
anybody says
just in my lifetime it has changed
an insane amount for the better i mean
you know like i never ever would have
believed
that at this point in my life like when
i was a teenager or whatever
that gay marriage would even be legal
let alone like
you know kind of almost normalized at
this point which is a good thing but i
i never if you told me that when i was
18 you're not living in celina tennessee
i told you you're out of your goddamn
mind like and but
you know it's happened and um and people
in my hometown you know are not
they've they've come a long way and
uh and i know that for a fact
and i believe that ultimately one way or
another
we will continue to progress in the
right direction
little hiccups and and speed bumps aside
so you know i just think everybody just
hang in there
and we'll get it figured out eventually
sounds good all right everybody that's
the show
it's uh just a thought you all
try to have a good night